## Conclusion

The paper introduced hypermedia controls to describe geospatial partitions, which clients can use to discover clusters of public transit stops. We evaluated 4 different clustering methods for the use-case of client-side route planning: k-Means, METIS, and two domain-specific methods of our own. Despite being very popular in the field of route planning, METIS has subpar results compared to the other methods. The complex nature of METIS clusters make them hard to interpret for clients. The other ubiquitous method, k-Means, does lead to good query times, but is harder to cache -- which is an important feature for publishing open data in a scalable fashion. The most promising method, both in terms of user convenience and cacheability, is to just create a Voronoi diagram around the most important transportation hubs. Although simple, this method results in simple clusters, while still incorporating both the geospatial and graph-like nature of transit data. The same less-is-more pattern repeats itself when looking at the role of the number of clusters; adding more clusters has diminishing returns on the query time, while making the data harder to cache. 

Our goal was to make open transit data more useful, so that more people can enjoy it in more applications. And in that regard, we succeeded. A small amount of clusters, 4 or 8, and a simple clustering algorithm is all it takes to make client-side route planners more than twice as efficient. Preliminary results show that the cacheability, and thus the scalability, of this approach is on par with the existing Linked Connections publishing scheme. Future work can verify this scalability in the real world, and compare it to both route planning services and existing Linked Connections servers. On top of that, more work can be done into finding good clustering strategies, because what works well for integrated services does not appear to work well for publishing data.