## Introduction

The [Open Definition](https://opendefinition.org/) defines open data as data that can be: "... freely used, modified, and shared by anyone for any purpose". This may seem utopian, but these principles are being adopted all over the world. The OECD has documented the positive impact of [Open Government Data](cite:cites oecd), and similar ideas have surfaced in academics with the [FAIR Data Principles](cite:cites fair) where a common guideline is to make data ["As open as possible as possible, as closed as necessary"](cite:cites landi2019fair). Many public transit operators also make their timetables available as open data. This is often done using de facto standards such as [GTFS](https://developers.google.com/transit/gtfs) or using official standards such as [NeTEx](http://netex-cen.eu/). 

Both of these data standards result in large data dumps. The combined GTFS feed of the public transit companies that operate in the Brussels area (SNCB, STIB, De Lijn, and Tec) is already over 1 GB of uncompressed data. For a hobbyist developer that wants use a Raspberry Pi to show a dashboard of bus passages near them, ingesting and processing the entire GTFS data dump may not be feasible. Luckily, most public transit operators also have real-time APIs, so they can just periodically poll data from a few stops instead. Now consider the case of someone who is looking to buy a house, and the quality of service of wheelchair accessible public transit is important to them. Real-time data is no longer sufficient; the weekend offering may be entirely different, or the wheelchair accessible buses only run during off-peak hours. They can fall back to the data dumps, but they will have to ingest much more data than necessary. 

Another use case for open transit data is route planning. The ideal route is subjective; a reasonable walking distance will differ from person to person, and will even depend on a person's mood. Contemporary route planning services preprocess data to provide better query time performance [](cite:citesAsEvidence googlemaps, ch, csa), but this preprocessing also restricts the types of queries that can be answered. For example, an algorithm that reuses precomputed shortest paths between stops will not be able to give you the most scenic path -- unless those are precomputed as well. But what if someone could use their own device to calculate their own personalized routes instead of using a service? They could tweak journeys until they find exactly what they are looking for, without putting an unreasonable strain on a route planning service. This approach obviously comes with its own challenges, and ingesting data is again one of them. Downloading the entire dataset to plan a route from one adjacent city to another will make the process too slow to be useful. 

These examples show that the way data is published can restrict the ways it is used. And since the goal of open data is to let people use the data how they wish, the ideal data publishing scheme should not impose such restrictions.